All right.
Welcome back.
Now we will implement the update functionality.
The first step is to get each update button to make a request on an empty path.
So here is the update button that will be a part of each row that gets generated and every update button
must make a get request.
We will use the family attribute h ref to make a request and you can specify a URL using the familiar
link expression.
The URL is context relative, so we can just specify the empty path and that should be enough.
Let's rerun our code.
Go here?
Actually, we'll have to resubmit some data.
We'll say furniture, couch, 350.9.
Any date?
Really?
Okay, looking good.
If I press the update bone, it should take me back to the home page.
And it does.
Now the updated button must pass a parameter into the request that identifies the object in the row.
All right.
In order to do that.
Well, before we pass a parameter into the request, we're missing one very important field.
Different objects can have the same category.
They can have the same name.
They can have the same price, discount or order date.
So what we need to do is give each object a field that is going to be unique to it.
And so let's remove the full constructor to avoid confusion.
And whenever a new object is created using the Item constructor, what we're going to do is set that
object ID equal to a universally unique identifier.
And then, as always, generate the getters and setters.
OC.
And going back to task two, the update button must pass a parameter into the request that identifies
the object in the row.
So back here, the update button that gets pressed, it's going to pass back an ID parameter.
That equals the ID of the object that was used to generate this table row.
Item dot ID.
Okay.
All our brackets are in order.
I think we're good to go.
All right.
And now if I go back.
Submit furniture.
Couch.
Okay.
If I press update.
It returns the ID of the object that was used to generate the row OC.
Task three is before returning the form view, we need to pre populate the form inputs with the values
from the object.
So our handler method.
Over here.
Let's remove all the breakpoints.
Our Handler method, it needs to receive that ID as a request parameter request per m.
And that request per diem is not always going to be required.
But the request parameter that we will expect on updates will be string ID.
And now the model attribute that we're going to add depends on whether we can find an object in our
data store that matches the ID that was provided.
So down here, I'm going to create a new method.
We're going to say public int get index from ID.
It will receive a string ID.
And now here I will create a for loop that runs through the size of our items.
Array list items.
Dot size.
And now we're going to check if the item at the current index that's being iterated through does its
ID.
Equal the IED that was passed in.
If that's the case, we will return the index.
Otherwise we will return -10,000.
And instead of having loose integers in our code, I'll go over to constants dot java and I will define
a constant that says public static final.
The constant will be an integer called not found and it's going to equal an integer if -10,000.
So instead of having a loose integer, we'll just say constants dot not found.
And then here we're going to say.
If.
We cannot find an index for the ID, so if the value from this function is constantly not found, so
if it's not able to find an object that matches the ID, then what we're going to do is just add a new
object to the model.
So we'll say new item.
Otherwise you will return the object at the found index.
And instead of calling this function twice, we'll just say int index is equal to get index from ID.
Then we'll say if the index is equal to constants not found, return a new object.
Otherwise, return the object that we found.
Return items.
Dot.
Get.
Okay.
Let's try this out.
Will submit the usual coach.
The press updates.
Beautiful.
The update button passed back an ID parameter that identifies the object that was used to create that
row.
The Handler method.
Upon intercepting the get request, it received an ID parameter, and then the handler method was able
to find an object whose ID matches the ID parameter, therefore adding that pre-existing object to our
model.
And just as we're about to return the form, the object that we're passing into the model is now a form
backing object.
That means every single element inside of our form is bound to a field in the form backing object.
Because all of the fields are going to be pre-populated, then our elements are going to be pre populated
as well.
This is just great.
Okay.
Now we're done.
Task three if the submitted item.
Oh, my bad.
If the submitted item already exists, your post handler method will seek to update the data store instead.
All right.
This is yelling at us to add some logic inside of handle.
And so upon pressing submit all of the data inside the form backing object is going to be sent back
as part of the post request handle submit intercepts, the post request and here we're going to use
the ID of that item object to check and see if it already exists.
So int index will say get index from id item dot get id.
And if index is equal to constants not found, only then do we want to say items dot add item.
Otherwise if it does actually find the index.
We'll say items.
And we'll update the item at that index.
Okay.
I think now we're ready to test it out.
Will choose furniture.
Couch.
300 bucks.
50.99.
Then we'll try to update it.
We'll give them a better discount, let's say 100 and $250.
And it adds another row to our table instead of updating it.
We can debug the runtime to understand why this is happening.
So if I were to stop.
Put breakpoints all over our setters.
As well as the constructor.
Some breakpoints inside of handle submit.
We run the application and debug mode.
We can figure out what's going on.
First, I will mute the breakpoints because I only want to see what's happening once we start updating.
So once again we will submit a couch with the usual price May 5th.
No press updates.
Remember this id ff0d6ec.
All right, I'll re-enable the breakpoints.
And press submit.
Okay.
And so upon pressing submit, it's going to initiate a post request that carries all of this data as
payload.
The Handler method handle submit is going to receive this post request, but just before this logic
starts to execute, spring boot actually creates a new item object behind the scenes using your empty
constructor.
But there is an issue.
It assigns that new item object an entirely new ID.
So this id of f f is 0d6 now means nothing.
Then it's going to update all of our other fields.
But now it doesn't matter because it's going to check if this ID for item matches any of the IDs for
the objects in the array list.
Clearly it doesn't.
So it's going to add this object instead.
All right.
Okay.
So the issue here is that our form, it sends back all of this data, but it doesn't send back the ID.
So Spring Boot creates an entirely new ID and it's not able to find this object in our data store.
What we need to do.
Is add another input to our reform.
That's hidden.
We'll say input type is equal to hidden.
And now this input is going to be bound to our ID field and that should fix our bug.
Go back to inventory.
Now I'll press the now I'll re-enable the breakpoints.
Press the update button.
It passes back an ID that identifies the object we pressed update on.
I'm going to update the discount to 3499 Press Submit item, but let me make sure all the breakpoints
are there real quick.
They are.
Wonderful.
Store comptroller intercepts the post request, and right before this logic executes, it creates a
new object of the item class using our empty constructor.
Unfortunately, it assigns this object an entirely new ID.
And then it's going to update every single field in our object with payload from the post request.
It updates the category and updates the date.
It updates the discount.
And now that the form is sending back an ID as part of a post request, we're able to override this
value with the correct ID.
Beautiful.
AF is 090577.
We'll update the name, we'll update the price.
And now it's going to check if the ID matches any of the objects IDs inside of the array list.
It definitely does.
And so it's going to update the object at that index instead.
Redirect the user to make a get request on slash inventory.
Get inventory gets called and it's going to add the updated array list to our model and return the inventory
view.
Beautiful.
Now, there are still many more tasks that we need to implement.
This is actually a new topic that we haven't covered.
So I'm going to stop right here and in the next video we'll cover the remainder of the solution.